
## TL;DR --> Everything in CP is just a remix of a few core ideas — learn those, and you break the game.
# What are First Principles?
First principles, those what matters, but what do I mean by that? There are tens of thousands of problems and it is impossible for someone to solve all of them and even that does not matter, it was never about the quantity of accepted code at all and the worst piece of advice is to tell someone “solve as much problems as possible”,  although I am sympathetic with such conception, because in its essence this is advice is telling you : “ when you solve many problems, you have a higher probability to stumble across many First Principles” and statistically that is true but what is also true is that you might end up getting so many accepted code and your color might not even be Pupil! , i.e., following this advice blindly increases also the probability of solving many useless problems that will teach you nothing. You might solve a bunch of 50 problems but you might had learned nothing, because through all of them, you have been repeating the same principle and the only thing you get out is getting used to one principle. What matter is that you must learn as much First Principles as possible. 


First Principles are those core ideas that appear in many algorithms and problems, for example, Count Sort, 2D prefix sum array, 2D prefix counting array might all seem different algorithms but they all boil down to one principle : “metadata about other data” , they boil down to the idea of making other data that tells us something about the original data and then we use the metadata to perform clever solutions rather than jumping to the original data which will force us to make naive solutions, you should tell yourself I will focus in discovering principles and apply them to problems that seems very different from the outside but they are in essence the same, rather than tell yourself I will just study Count Sort and do it, of course you must know the algorithm of Count Sort but at the end, it is not about Count Sort, it is about the principle of Metadata, the idea that you make metadata about the original data and do the solution above the metadata because doing it in the original data is naive. The principle of Metadata is also apparent in the technique of Memoization, it was never about Memo, it was about the Metadata principle. In this series, I will try my best to cover First Principles. 

